I decided to make a scatter plot of subway stations
with latitude and longitude as the X and Y axis,
and ridership as the bubble size.
The first thing I needed to do is group the data by latitude and longitude.
And I also wanted to find the mean ridership for each location.
And I'll just take a look at the first few rows to make sure that it worked.
Now, this looks good,
but the next thing I'd like to do is get out
the latitudes and longitudes in order to make the scatter plot.
However, if I just add at latitudes to the end of this code, I'll get an error.
The reason is because latitude and longitude are no longer columns of the data frame.
Instead, they've been transformed into the row indexes for the data frame.
I can prevent this by parsing as_index=False to the groupby function.
And now I'm able to get out just the latitude or similarly just the longitude.
I'll add the usual percent pylab inline and imports text,
and next I'll create the scatter plot with latitude as
the X coordinates and longitude as the Y coordinates.
Now, I'll go ahead and take a look.
This worked to create a scatter plot of all the subway stations,
but I haven't yet made the bubble size dependent on the ridership.
I wasn't quite sure how to do this,
so I decided to Google for matplotlib scatter plot bubble size.
The first result here about the plot marker size looks good.
Looking at the example code here in the first answer,
it looks like I can give the argument s to the scatter function,
and that argument can be an array so that I
can control the size of each bubble separately.
So, I'm going to try adding the argument s to my code and
giving it the entries and hourly column to determine the size of each bubble.
Running this, it looks like it more or less worked,
but a lot of the bubbles are huge,
which is making the plot really hard to understand.
To fix this, I'm going to create a new variable called scaled_entries.
And to scale the hourly entries,
I'll divide each value by the standard deviation.
Next, I'll change the size argument to
the scatter plot function to be the scaled entries rather than the raw entries.
And running this code, the resulting plot looks much more reasonable.
Now, the bubbles are maybe a little small now,
so I could play around with the scaling factor a bit,
but already I can see that there are some areas of
New York that tend to have higher ridership say,
down here and maybe also up here a little bit.